
# Transcript
SPEAKER 0
this material is made available to you by or on behalf of the University of Melbourne under section 103 P of the Copyright Act 1968. It may be subject to copyright. For more information, visit the university copyright website.

SPEAKER 1
Yeah, All right.

SPEAKER 2
Uh, welcome. Uh, my name is Alison Alison Costa I. I will be a lecturer in, uh, optimisation for industry. Uh, first of all, can you hear me? Well, in the back as well. Can you see this? All right. All right. Cool. Uh, excellent. My my name is Alison Costa. I'm, uh, I'm an associate professor here at the School of Mathematics and Statistics. I've been here for 10 years now before I was, uh, an assistant professor at the University of Sao Paulo in Brazil. And before that, I was a PhD student at, uh, the University of Montreal in Canada and all this time doing, uh, operations research, optimisation, uh, since my masters, actually. And, uh, yeah, I've been in this gig for about 20 years now, and this is the 11th time that I'm teaching this subject. This is, uh, my favourite subject, and I hope it will be yours as well. It's, uh you realise it's a very applied, uh, subject. We'll go. We'll discuss the details of this, uh, in a moment. But just as a preview, it's a very applied, uh, subject. What we'll be doing most of the time can be divided in two main things. The first, the first thing that we will be doing is to understand what are these optimisation problems? What are these problems in industry? And I would say not only in industry, but also in public decision making. For example, uh, what are these problems that appear? And we spend quite a bit of time understanding how we can formalise these problems, how we can model these problems mathematically and in particular, we will be dealing with a very, very specific structure of mathematical modelling called mixed integer programming or mixed integer linear programming, which is for those of you who have done some sort of operation research in your career, you probably heard of the simplex algorithm. So the simplex algorithm is an algorithm proposed in the forest by George Denis that is very efficient to obtain in obtaining solutions for problems modelled in a linear fashion. So this will be a key word in our subject. Linear. So everything that we will be doing here will be linear in the sense that we will be defining variables. And in terms of these variables, we want to write two important set of things. The first set of things is a set of constraints that is being your variables. Your decisions, Uh, for whatever problem you're dealing with, then your your your variables, the decisions that you can make the constraints limit which decisions you can make right. So if I want to, um, buy a new computer one of my constraints for my budget. So I will decide X being which computer I'm gonna buy. I will have some constraint that says that the amount the amount of money that I spend on X must be smaller than the budget that I have to buy my computer. The important thing is that when I write this constraint, it needs to be linear. You you will never see in this course you won't see in this course sine of XX square exponential of X. So it's very simple, right? So uh, no integrals in this course, it's so it's all outside from here. A lot of people do here in this building, but we don't. We only deal with linear programming. But the thing is, we want to extend a little bit linear programming to include another particularity that makes things much more interesting. That is, I can decide that I only buy computers with, uh, an integral amount of dollars. Let's say, uh, I cannot I cannot buy a computer that costs 1000 and 10.55 cents. I can only buy computers that cost $1010 so it's a bad example. But what I mean is that you you, In this course, you may be able to limit your variables to only assume integral values. This is quite a big step because first of all, it does not look at at first sight does not look like a big step. You could say, Well, we just you know, if the computer is 1000.55 cents, just say that you pay $1001 and that's integral right, you lose 45 cents, but that's not a big deal. The point is, the thing is, uh, sometimes you cannot do that. So we always spend the first part of this course modelling problems. And you see that, for example, many times you need this integral in order to really understand what the problem is talking about. If I'm, uh, an airline company trying to decide how many flights I'm gonna have between Melbourne and Sydney tomorrow, Uh, I cannot say that I'm gonna have 4.5 flights. Makes no sense, right? So it needs to be four or needs to be five. And the fact that I need to impose integral on my constraints makes that the simplex algorithm is not enough to solve the problem anymore. Then we need more elaborate techniques, and that's what we are going to do in the second part of the course. So in the first part of the course, we are gonna be learning how to model the problems, understanding the problem and modelling it, writing down in the equations that fit our framework. And then in the second part, we understand how to actually how to obtain solutions for these problems mathematically in the meantime, or throughout the whole course, we will be dealing with, uh, computational environment that has all these methods or many of these methods that we're gonna be studying implemented. And we will be able to implement our models using, uh, computing language in particular. We are gonna be using python, uh, and obtain solutions for these models computationally. So if you want an overview of the course, it's gonna be understand what optimisation is, how to model problems. And once you have a model how to obtain a solution for this problem and throughout, we are gonna be implementing these models compassionately and obtaining solutions. So in the beginning, we are gonna be implementing and obtaining solutions, actually, without really understanding what the computer is doing or what the server is doing. And throughout the course, you're gonna be learning how to What is it doing? And more, We're gonna be, uh, understanding how to extend the applicability of these, uh, servers makes sense. Uh, just so that I have, uh, I I'm probably gonna go with these slides, so this is pretty much what? What I've been saying. Uh, the first goal is to understand optimisation problems and represent it as a mathematical model, uh, using linear constraints. And later on, we will, uh understand the algorithms used by these servers extend their capabilities using what we call the composition methods. And in the meantime, we're gonna be using these mathematical programming, So in order to obtain solutions, so it makes it fun, right? It's always more fun when you can actually see something happening. And that's what we are gonna be doing here in the classes. We're gonna be focusing on the more theoretical aspects of, uh, of the subject. And in the tutorials, we're gonna be dealing with the more implement, implement implementation and computational aspects of the of the course. Uh, this is a This course falls into the the main area if you want to call it like that of operations research. So operations research is a really multidisciplinary area that you will find courses like this in, uh, well, at least some there in engineering and computer science in business administration, in economics and in mathematics as well. So it's a very it's by nature. Actually, the first team of operations research was during the Second World War, and, uh, it was really a mixed bag. You had engineers. You had, uh, physicists. You had all sort of people with different backgrounds and this tradition carry on. So nowadays, up to up to today, people who work with what we do here are people everywhere in in the sense that, uh, you do not need to be a mathematician. You do not need to be an engineer. You do not need to be a computer science. Actually, you need a little bit of everything in order to in order to properly or to be a good operational research. Uh, professional. This is, uh, by the way. What what's your can I, uh who here, if you can raise your hand just to give us an idea? Is in this school in mathematics? Not so many. Right. Welcome. Uh, who is in engineering? Right. So what engineer is that Electrical? Hm? Industrial. Any other engineering computer science? Well, a lot of people did not raise their hands. It's all right. Did they forget any subject any any major? Anything that I forgot? In any case, you can extrapolate those who raise your hands for those who do not. So let's let's assume that the proportion is sea, so you can see that we have lots of engineering students. Lots of mathematics students. There are usually some, uh, computer science as well. It really reflects what the profession is about. It's really about these different capabilities of being able to understand the theory of what's going on, uh, understanding the practicality, the engineering aspect of it. What's the problem is about How can I simplify the problem to make it, you know, realistic, uh, or or to make a real to make a real problem, to model a real problem in a simplified model. But it's still realistic, which is pretty much the job of an engineer, right? It is understanding what are the aspects of a problem that are that are important for your model. And you also need some, uh, computing skills. We will be implementing these things. We will be, uh, playing with those. So I try to make this, uh, this is a very broad subject. So there are not many, uh, those of you who did not do your undergrad at un E. You probably had to write me asking for permission to enrol. I give permission to everybody because I try to make this course very self contained. So everything that you will need, uh, the prerequisites mentioned linear algebra, right? So I assume everybody knows linear algebra here. Especially the kind of linear algebra that we're gonna be needing, which is basically matrix manipulation. So maybe something about the rank of matrix, but not not not Not nothing. Really complicated. Uh, I don't even touch, you know, things that we learn in the AL like subspaces or things like that. Don't worry. If you know the basics of, uh, matrix manipulation. What is invertible Matrix? How to invert a matrix? Things like that should be more than fine. Um, you you need, however, to be able to code. Uh, this is not a coding subject. The coding involved here is very simple. We don't see some examples even today. So the model that we write are gonna be very similar to the lines of code that we will be writing, But you cannot be afraid of coding. Right. So if, uh, if coding is something that, uh, terrorise you, maybe this is not a subject for you. You need to. You you. But if you have intermediate coding skills, yeah, you should be more than more than fine. Right? Um, in terms of learning outcomes. Uh, it's pretty much what I said. I want you to understand where we sit in the world in terms of our discipline. I want you to understand I want you to be able to look at the problem and have a feeling If this is the kind of techniques that you can use for this problem, the answer is often, yes. Unless they are very, very intrinsic. No, linear it in your problem, we'll be. As I said, we're gonna be making everything linear. If your problem is something that is all over the place, Um, then it's probably not the the the the approach to take, but most most most decision making problems. Uh, we can get around this, uh, you learn how to implement, and, uh, you'll definitely be able to have an idea of where you can go from from here in terms of generic skills. Just the general right, uh, analytical skills be able to engage with different problems. Uh, collaboration. We'll talk about assessment in a second, uh, and, uh, time management skills that are deadlines, strict, nothing really different from any other subject that you've taken in your career. Uh, apart from myself in the team. We have, uh, Nico who Nico is. He just presented his completion seminar for his PhD. Maybe a couple of weeks ago, three weeks ago. And he's helping us with this subject who are gonna be tutoring two groups. I think he's on Wednesday and Thursday. And I'm with the Friday group or or something I. I maybe even discuss it. Anyway, you will be tutoring two of the tutorial groups and I'll be tutoring the the other one. Um, we will both have office hours. I will propose my office hours. I will put that on canvas. We will go to canvas in a second, so we'll talk about that. In terms of content, we will be modelling. Then you have a little review A brief review of the simplex algorithm for those of you who have not seen it as him who here has seen the simplex algorithm before? Right? So if I project that to the people who don't answer, I would say 50% or anyway. But you you don't need, uh we will cover that in detail. Well, in real real relative detail and then we start seeing methods for solving the problems that we have model extend these methods using what we call the composition algorithms. And finally, we will have a little bit of an introduction to how to incorporate uncertainty in your models. So we have, um, this lecture here every week for 12 weeks, and we have one hour of tutorial as well. There are three groups. As I mentioned, uh, these lectures are recorded, and, uh, I don't keep tab of who is coming. Right? Uh, you you are free not to come. It's, uh I'm glad that you are here. Uh, especially after covid. So much better to be here and to see people in, In any case, I, I won't keep attendance. Uh, I won't be saying Oh, you failed the subject because you did not come to class, however, and I I should talk to those who are watching at home. However, these classes are not optimised for video. OK, so I I'm, uh I'm giving this lecture here, and I'm focusing on people who are here, and that's my my goal. To have the best possible experience that you guys can have here, uh, records are supposed to be for when you cannot make to a lecture when you get sick or something happens. It's not supposed to be the substitution for the the the lecture. Right again. I won't be kept in tab. But I hope that you I should be talking again to the camera. I hope that you guys that are not here can come because this is supposed that's that's that's the audience that I'm focusing on, right recordings. Sometimes you have problems and things happen. And well, they are. They are. Uh uh They are auxiliary material. They are not the This is not an online course in particular for the tutorials. The tutorials are not recorded. So, uh, I will, however, provide all the questions of course beforehand. And also how the, uh the answers after the tutorial, the first tutorial is already there. Any questions so far? OK, in terms of assessment, uh, so there will be three pieces of assessment. The first one is one individual, uh, assignment, which I will provide you later this week. I use this assignment. I will provide you with two different problems. And when I mean problem, I mean the description of a problem. One of them will be. I have a company I need to hire. I need to schedule the timetable of my employees. And I know that from Monday to Friday I need two employees between 9 a.m. and 11 a.m. and three employees between 11 and whatever. And I have some part time employees, some full time employees. I know that, uh, employees sometimes can or by legislation. Some employees cannot work more than four consecutive days or something like that. So I will give a description of the requirements of my problem. And I expect you to model this problem, implement it, obtain solutions and do some analysis. So that's basically the the individual assessment. So there is. Oh, there is. It's quite simple. Um, the assignment is individual, though, and I by by this I mean that you are not allowed to change to to exchange solutions between each other. Uh, you can discuss in generic terms without sharing code or sharing explicit, explicit mathematical equations. You are able to talk to people, but you cannot share code or explicit, uh, mathematical equations. Uh, I take this seriously, uh, in respect for those of you which are the vast majority who do the work seriously. So I take it seriously, I. I run these things through plagiarism checkers, and, uh, and unfortunately, sometimes we do get people who who copied work, and, uh, they, uh it goes up to the university, right? It goes up, uh, up the hills. And, uh, some people get, uh, fail the course. Some people fail the anyway, the the consequences are are are important. So please do not do it properly. Do it. Uh, it yourself, it should be easy. We are very welcome to discuss these things as well. Online. As long as you do not share answers or or or code or anything, we have a forum. I will show that in a second. And, uh, if you don't understand, Well, I don't understand. Like, do I need three employees at 11 a.m. But what about 1130? Uh, can the employees start at, uh, whatever kind of general questions about the meaning of the the the problem? You can be very welcome to use the forum to discuss, uh, in terms of, uh, submission. You will be submitting, uh, a PDF document containing the models and also a Gupta notebook. It's basically AAA piece of code containing your That's the same kind of structure that we use in a tutorial. So you get used to that contain your hold. Uh, it's interesting times the times that we live, uh, with these large language models JTPT and so on. So you are welcome to try to use them if that helps you. Uh, however, if you use them, you need to tell me that you have used them and show me the prompts that you use and and give me an idea of what you have, uh, used right? I've tried I. I always tried since last year when these things became available. Uh, if you know what you're doing that let's say state of things these times, right at this point in time, if you know what you're doing, this strate, GP, T or any other model like this can be helpful. If you don't know what you're doing, it can be very unhelpful. So use it if you like. Uh, I find it very good for for helping me code. How do I solve this? Vector? Whatever. Whatever. It's very good for that for solving the assignment. Uh, you're not supposed to put the question there and, uh, and just give me the solution. Even if you do, it won't, at least in my experience. But you're not supposed to do that. But you can ask questions to it. Just be clear to me and to the marker that you have used that. And you'll be fine, right? Uh, does that make sense? But, uh um, what else? So this is due by the week by the end of week seven. These is a strict I usually give, uh, some kind of, uh, you know, cup of, uh, I'll probably let you. I will let you submit by. I will keep it open here Monday morning, for example. But I don't usually provide uh, extensions. Right, I? I will keep it open as, uh, uh, a great spirit for OK, your internet. You let the last minute your internet played out and you could not submit at 5 p.m. You can submit on Saturday morning, but I don't usually provide extensions. This is the limit to where I go. Uh, it's part of the learning. Uh, learning. Uh, how do you call it? Learning goals, Right? Um, or general skills? Time management skills. So it's part of the deal. You have six weeks. It's the end of week seven. I will release this this week. You have a lot of time to play with these things. Don't leave it to the last minute. Extensions are usually not, uh, provided. Unless something very serious, uh, happens. We also have a group project. The group project is actually double the value of the individual assignment. You'll be working at groups of up to six. we have quite a few. Quite a large number of students. We have 100 students, so that will go up to 17 groups. In my time as a student. I was not a big fan of group work because I know it can be complicated. Uh, I will. I rarely have problems here of, uh, people not collaborating or people being annoying in the groups. If you have any problems, you can talk to me. If this happens, I will implement uh, uh, peer peer evaluation in the end of the semester, which basically asks everyone in the group individually and, uh anonymously to rank the contribution of the other peers. And if everybody says that someone has not contributed. I will act on that. Right. But this rarely happens. It's important that you find a group which is a group that you hopefully nice, like to work. And hopefully we will be able to collaborate properly. I'm looking at all of you guys who are here. Uh uh, A good I don't know. Uh, coming to class is also a very good point for the group project. Right. You You'll be seeing your group members at least once a week and having a little chat and so on. So this is also a recommendation for coming to class. Of course, there are always going to be people who do not come to class. So maybe try to find people who fit your style, right? If you always come into class, you'll probably be happier with someone who is also coming that you can discuss or whatever. In any case, I don't impose any constraints on the groups. You are free to choose who you want to work with and and the idea of the group project. It's pretty much the individual assignment without my input. So, in the individual assignment, I provided you with a realistic problem and asking you to model and solve the problem and do analysis in the group project, you find the optimisation problem to solve you will. Either something from your masters or some small company that you know or the company that some member of the group works has a problem, and you identify this problem. It's important part of the group project to identify a proper problem and then provi proceed as in in the individual assignment model and solve it and do analysis. You always do My experience in 11 years. Teaching the subject is that you always do very well. There is always a couple of people who have interesting problems. Actually, the problem. The discussion usually revolves around which problem we should choose. We have more than one if you don't have any ideas. I'm happy to talk, uh, during my office hours. So that's, uh, and even if you have ideas, I'm very happy to talk and very happy. When the groups come talk to me, it's always show some, uh, it always indicates that the group is gonna do well and they start early and try to to come up with an interesting problem and so on. Um, for this, I I ask you to provide a proposal, Uh, by the end of week six. So by the end of week six, I expect you to have at least identified the problem that you want to work with. And, uh, and the the reason I provide this is to at least make sure that you have started, right, And make sure that you are doing some work on that there is plenty of time, and, uh and the submission is pretty much as in the assignment is simple. It's a report description of the problem and so on. And, uh, the code And in this case, uh, please do not use uh, JP and his friends for writing text. Right? But a piece of advice Don't use them to write test text ever, right? You know, these things works very well for a couple of months, and then you think you're writing something very original and very good, but I've seen like this thing has written 10,000 times before. Um, because I'm talking about emails, right. You get these emails now written by Cha TPT. And when you see them once, they look very well written. But when you see them 10,000 times, you know that it's just someone who didn't want to write an email and put in the chai Pian wrote it to me. So it's kind of annoying. So don't do these things for writing text. It's not good. Uh, you can use to for things that it's probably better helping your cold or stuff like that. And finally, the exam, Uh, where we have the theory of this course, uh, evaluated. It happens during the exam period. I have No who is here is new at uni me. It's the first semester at TM. Right. So a few of you, uh, I have no control over examinations. So do your best to be able to be here during the examination period. Um, because otherwise, uh, yeah. You want people to take the exam? It's not up to me to decide if you can take a zoom exam or whatever. These things are not allowed anymore. So you have to be here. Uh, when the university tells you to, right? So please be aware of that. Be aware of your flights. Those who are gonna travel make sure to book your flights after the exam or before the special exam if you ever do an special exam. But anyway, um, I think that is all that I wanted to say in terms of bureaucracy. Does that sounds clear. Are there any questions or comments? Complaints? No. Oh, right. Before Let me just show you the L MS again. For those who are new at Tim, everything will happen in our learning management system. Um, I mentioned I mentioned about my office hours, so let me just set those now. So let's set this for Mondays just after this class and Fridays, so please make use of it. Uh, I was very happy to to talk to you during my office hours. I think it's a It's a good, uh, way to catch up on things that you couldn't cover here or or or get help with your assignments and so on. Uh, Nico will also put some office hours, but he will let for I wait for him to meet you and decide with you. Uh, when is that? I also need a course representative. It's basically someone who will be a contact in case. Uh, yeah, I don't even know exactly what the course representative does, Uh, in case there is any issue. And, uh, a student don't want to talk to me. They can talk to the course. Representative. Uh, there's not much work involved. It's just I think there is one meeting that you you gotta come to to the soft room and you'll be provided pizza. So that's that. Is there anyone who would like to volunteer to be a course representative? Not even free pizza? No.

SPEAKER 1
Today you come at your post.

SPEAKER 2
Sorry. Ok. Oh, it's on. It's on week four. It's during lunch time. Uh um, if you cannot come, that's not even that problematic. Will you volunteer? Thank you very much. Can you can you talk to me after class? Just give me your name and email. I'll give you all the info. And if for some reason you cannot, uh, then we can It's not written in stor. Right, But thank you. What's your name? Philip. So, Philip is our course representative? If, uh, if there's any, I'm, uh, those who know me. I'm very open and I'm very happy. I wish to talk about anything relating to the subject, But if For some reason you're not comfortable talking to me. And you want to convey some research. Please feel free to To talk to. To Philip. Thanks again. Uh, right. So in the L MS, you'll find pretty much everything that we you need in particular this link here. The discussion will take you to this, uh, forum. Please be Please use it, uh, to talk to each other. And also I, I monitor this forum lightly. I'm not here answering every question. I hope that you guys can answer this one's, uh, questions as well, but I I'm always looking at it as well, so please use it. Um, the course notes that I've been using. They are here. There is a version like these with two pages, and there is a version with, uh, one page per page one. Uh, the tutorials, if you click here, will take you to, uh, the list of tutorials. So far, you only have the first one, questions. Later on, we will put the answers and let me show you how they what they look like. So that's what they look like, right? So And that's also the format that you'll be sending your assignments. So basically, we just have some questions here, and you can put both text and code in the same document. So that's why, for those of you who have never heard of used due to notebooks, that's why I feel that's very useful you can. It's a very flexible format. You can install these things for free in your computer. All the information is here they are. Everything is installed in the labs as well that we're gonna use. So if you don't want to install those in your computer, you can always come to the lab. But it's always convenient to have those in your computers as well. Uh, we will be using this server called gurobi. There's also the the instructions, how to to get used to it and to install it in your computer as well. And the assignments I'm gonna be. I'm gonna upload them this week. I think that's all in terms of housekeeping that I wanted to say. It's a bit boring, but we need to do this. But now we can start the fun if you like talking about decision making, so this course could have many names. Uh, it's called optimisation for industry. I mentioned that it could be optimisation for industry and decision making. I could have named it, uh, in terms of the main technique that we're gonna be looking at that is mixed integer programming. So you could have named this course a course on mixed integer programming. You could also have named this course after decision making. So this course is about decision making everything that we're gonna be doing all the problems that you're gonna be seeing here. They revolve around a decision or many decisions, right? The the main question that you'll be asking yourselves is, what am I deciding? That was gonna be your ex? That's gonna be your variable. What are you deciding? Of course, Decision making. If you if I use that name, I could have looked at very different approach to decision making. So, for example, I could have gone to the psychology the psychology departments here and talking about, uh, neuroscience or thinking judgement and decision making. I could have looked at manage economics, behavioural economics, These all these courses do they? They they they give about how humans take decisions. However, the difference here is that we are looking at decisions or we are looking at problems that we can model model very properly model in terms of, uh, a mathematical set of constraints. And I haven't mentioned this term before that it's going to be very important, an objective function when you are dealing with an optimisation problem. Almost always. Unless when? It's just the problem of finding a feasible solution, which exists as well. But almost always, you want to find a solution that respect your constraints and optimises some se some metric optimises some objective function. So that's the That's the scope of our our decision making here. The closest to us would be maybe, uh, game theory, which we do have some courses here as well, but that's more. It is getting close, but it's not really, uh, an optimisation problem. So this is really a particular, uh, uh, a different approach to decision making. And this is the approach, uh, what we call the operations research approach. What? Look at this from the eyes of a consultant, right? You just finish your masters. You got hired in some consulting agency, and, uh, you got called in a company to optimise some process that they have. So this is pretty much the approach that we take all the time. First thing is the orientation the orientation is someone who knows the problem telling you what the problem is about. And spoiler many times they don't know, right? Uh, many times. Uh, they they have a vague II. I want I. I need to be careful here. People in industry, they are very good at what they are doing. They are producing things. They are They are, you know, things are working. But sometimes we don't know exactly why they are working. They they they are working. So when they want to explain to you, OK, I want to make these things more things more efficient and you start digging in all But how is it working? Why do you do this or why do you do that Very often when you look at consulting problems when I talk to my friends who are consultants, very often, this can be the most productive path for the company, making them think about what the problem is, making them understand what their processes are in this part. That's when you understand. And you could write if you like what I'm going to write in the assignment? One for you. Oh, I have a company who has nine. That's that's when you get the description of this problem description. You, uh, define the problem itself. You you proper YYY you. You simplify what you need to simplify, and you keep what you need to keep. So you discard all the sorts of information that it is. I messed up in the guy of the the company's guy who he doesn't know, that it's not important that that truck is arriving at 9 a.m. because that truck has no influence in the process. But he gives you that information as well, right? So in his orientation, it's not your job to do the problem definition where you write, What's the important aspects of your problem ignoring that truck at 9 a.m. That has nothing to do with this this process. But the guy that didn't even know that, then, uh, you need to collect data, right? So that drug is not important. But other things are what are these things? And, uh, when do they arrive? How much of them do I have? Uh, what's the what are the requirements and so on. You model your problem and we will be spending a lot of time here. Uh, most of our, uh most of our course, at least in the lectures, will be around here. That is, once you have the problem, you model the problem, and I can obtain a solution for the problem. We are going to be learning how to obtain these solutions. What are the mathematical techniques to obtain these solutions? But in in industry, you also have after you get a solution, you have a validation phase. You bring that back to the to the company and say, OK, how does this solution work Very often in this phase, what happens is that your solution cannot be implemented and this is not your fault. It's the fault of the guy who told you the problem. I it's important to find someone to blame. Right? Uh, why Why do I say that? Uh, I'll give you an example. Um, I can give you many examples, but it's usually because something is so obvious for them. They've been doing this process for 20 years. It's so obvious for them that you cannot place this pen here while you talk. For some reason there is a magnetic field or whatever, but they never told me that. Right? So when I make my model, I at some point during my kitchen, I put my my pen here, and then I I go to them with the solution, I say, Oh, but you put the pen here. You can never do that. I said I didn't know, Right? So that's where the validation happens. When you confront your solution to what can really be implemented and what do you do? You go back. So from validation, you go back to orientation and problem definition and so on. And after you've gone through this loop a few times, you implement, uh, your your model, these processes that I am talking about, they happen pretty much everywhere. This is a slide from, uh, Gurobi. That's silver. Uh, in your assignment, you'll be doing one question on workforce scheduling. That's exactly what I was talking about, right? I have some demand. I want you to decide where to put the workers when each worker should work and so on. I'm also do you see manufacturing there or supply chain? Maybe, Uh, Anyway, I have another question That's an assembly line. So manufacturing. But these problems appear. Really? Uh uh. In in many, many, many, many, many situations, uh, I will just take a few projects that I have worked with. For example, for example, Elect Power. My master thesis was about designing the network of, uh, distribution, the distribution network for electricity in what we call low voltage. Right? The the energy comes from the plants at a very high voltage. Goes through some, uh, substations, and then you have the live low voltage that goes to the consumers. My master was doing a doing that I currently work with some people in electro engineering trying to decide what is the best way to expand the Australian grid system. Considering all the renewables that are getting into the system considering, uh, the increase in demand considering uncertainty. So it's, uh, many, many problems there. Uh, I worked with agriculture a few years ago, or or many years ago, where basically, we are deciding how to plant vegetables such that you rotate the crop that you are using in order to minimise the number of plagues that you had. So if you planted, uh, two crops that have the same botanical family next to each other in time or in space. What would happen is that there is some plague here. They could invade the other plague because if I like this food, I like this food as well. So our goal was to try to plan which crops to plant in order to supply a demand. We were working with some cooperators back in Brazil, which had an agreement with supermarkets, the the equivalent of our coal or wars or whatever we had. They had some agreements, and we had to decide when to plant the crops in order to supply the demands of the supermarkets knowing that you you can install some crops after you harvest. But you didn't want them to to have many similarities between time and space in order to minimise the use of, uh, um, exercises. Well, I could keep going here, but I have a master's student now who is working with, uh, if you have a forest, how do you thin this forest out? Pretty much like, uh, what the Aboriginal people in Australia do with the prescribed burning, uh, in order to minimise the risk of fires, right? So it's a very common problem. You have forest. You use part of this forest to provide, uh, wood for for companies or whatever. But where Where can you extract this material? Well, you can do that in a smart way. You can do that in a way such that, uh, you remove few from places that if a fire happens, the fire will not propagate so much. So these kind of problems appear very often as well, or I could keep going. But during the course, we will see many, many examples of that in terms of jobs. Just follow the idea of the applications, right? The jobs are where the applications are. I have I have all my students working pretty much in very, very different fields from the Victoria police to consulting companies to, uh, to banks. Many of them work in banks. There is a lot of optimisation in banks. Uh uh. A lot of, uh, I have a I have a PhD. Student who just got hired at Amazon two weeks ago. Well, he just got hired, but the process was like eight months for hiring him anyway. But he got hired. So he's gonna be working with, uh is gathering. He's back in Brazil. He's Brazilian. So Amazon is is buy their fleet of planes in Brazil. They have that in the U. SI don't know if they have that in Australia, but in Brazil they just hired loads in third party planes. But now they are. They are buying their own planes and he's been hired to help them plan what to do with these planes, Right? What are the flights that these planes should do? So you can imagine that there is a lot of, uh, jobs in logistic companies as well, and so on. I. I like to give a break. Uh, a few. But we need an agreement. I only allow for breaks if you promise me that you'll be back by the time that we say. OK, so I. I usually give a five minutes 5 to 7 minutes break. Let's say six minutes today. So it's 1002. Let's say that we are all back here by 1008 makes sense. Please operate and I will get my charger. Otherwise, this is gonna so send me th something six

SPEAKER 1
No, this that thought that Oh, OK, exactly. Show she has that about that talk about Thanks, but that has to be a little bit more. Can you change your A to I? They all OK from former session. That what, 7.78. What love time? I just Yeah. OK, that I know. I No. OK. Did you find that? Oh, that this happened. Wow. Um, OK. You know, and he said, you know, so just, uh,

SPEAKER 3
um, a question. Are we allowed to form groups in different, uh, tutorial groups, So Yes. OK, thank you. Oh, yeah. Nice to see you in person, because when we do our, uh, mathematics operation research, we are during the online class. All we are all in online. You never have an in person.

SPEAKER 1
Excellent. Most in some part of the time. All right.

SPEAKER 2
OK, let's go back. I see that, uh, I see that you are already talking to each other, which is great. I assume that you are talking about groups, so I forgot to mention if you when you find your group, just go to the L MS people project groups, and you'll be able to drag yourself to, uh, to the different groups, so we could just probably just be able to drag your names to the groups that you belong to. So I I recommend that you form the groups as soon as possible and, um, in case, uh, by the end of week three, I see people who do not have groups. I will assign them automatically. You probably don't want that. Probably want to find the people who we want to work with. Uh, yourself. Cool. So we talked about the operation research approach. You will find different people in operations research doing different kinds of things, even if they kind of follow the same approach. Uh, in particular, we were We are dealing with what we call mathematical programming, and they will specify that in a second. But there are many, many things, right? And and, uh, gives, uh, a beautiful graph trying to represent all the kind of, uh where these things appear and what we usually deal with. Uh, we are dealing with optimisation in particular with mathematical programme, which is this idea that you get a problem. You model and you try to solve the model. Uh, I don't know if you realise, But there's a There's a very interesting aspect of this approach. Is it falling? And we explore this during this whole subject, and that's the falling. Here's your problem. You convert your problem into a model and you solve your model using a technique for the model itself, which means that your technique is not directly related to the problem. That's what makes this course very, very powerful is the fact that once you because the technique does not necessarily depend on the problem itself, it just depends on the model and in particular on the structure of the model. If you model your problem using the techniques that we're gonna see here using the strategies that we're gonna see here, basically, if you model everything as a linear constraint, you'll be able to solve your model using the techniques or the servers that we're gonna be using. It's a big step. You the coupling somehow, the problem to the solution method. This is very different to what happens with heuristics or mets. For example, we have a I teach a whole course, uh, on heuristics me of my and my colleague charas on heuristics in the second semester, which you are very welcome to take. And in that case, it is completely. In that case, we don't have that every problem. You work at the solution method directly in the problem itself. We don't have this abstraction of a model. There are advantages of doing that. The direct approach is that S are usually more flexible because you can adjust that to the problem itself. However, our approach is much more independent and much more generic, if you like. So we will see and you observe that very clearly in the from next week on the tutorials that you will be modelling problems implementing these models pressing, enter, solve and you will be getting a solution. And at that point you will have very little idea of what is going behind the wheels. Right? So that's one of the advantages of using, uh, the mathematical programming approach. Let's see an example a very silly example, but, uh, intentionally silly just to just to connect to the cover page of our course. So this is a painting in a Oh, I removed the he I should have haven't removed, but it's a painting in a in a primitive cave, of course. And it is representing some people trying to hunt. I said mammoth, but I don't even know what that animal is. But anyway, they're trying to hunt, right? Uh, even in these most primitive tasks, you do have some decision making to do, uh, you work in a group. Not everybody is trying to pin the guy. Some people are trying maybe to attract the attention of the of the animal, some other trying to push the animal to some part of the space. And some people are actually trying to to hit it right? So even in these very primitive situations, we do have some decision making to do. Of course, we don't think that the cave men and women over there were modelling these, but we can try to. We can try to for fun, to try to understand, or to try to come up with a of a idealised model. So let's say that for capture capturing this animal, you estimate that you need some hunters, and three of these hunters need to be strong. Four need to be smart, and three need to be fast. That's the team that you need. After many experiences. You realise that all that I just took some dumb people to hunt with me? It's not happening. I need at least some smart people to decide with us. I need some people who are strong. Whatever the question is, what is the minimum number of hunters that you can assign to the mission? Note that if your fast is smart and strong, you will count for one in all these requirements, right? So it might be that you can minimise the number of, uh, hunters that you have according to what you have available. So in my tribe, I have eight people who are fast and smart, six people who are strong but very dumb and very slow, Uh, five people and so on, right? The question is, how can I represent this as a mathematical model? And the main question, the primordial question that you always ask is, What am I trying to decide? What is your decision? Variable? Another way of thinking of this is supposedly that person over there who is organising the hunt. He is very good in implementing what I tell them to do, but he does not. He cannot take decisions himself. So your decision is something that you give to the person who is implementing your problem. Who is implementing your solution Rather And they do not need to think anything else. They just implement it. So what kind of information in this problem do I give her or him such that they can implement the hunt without any extra information? What is your decision? Variable. Exactly. Right. How many people from each category. So I can call these each row a type of people, a type of hunter. So my, my, my problem can be my solution can be How many people of type T T equal equals one T equals two and so on. I'm gonna put in my in my hand a big step or a big thing. Something that we always need when we are writing mathematics is to define a notation. I used to have a professor who said that notation is not important at all as long as it is well defined, right? Which is uh that's all. A notation is right. The definition so you can define however you want as long as it is well defined. So what I'm defining here is the form. I'm calling this set R BT the range of hunter types. Which kind of hunter types do I have? RC? Which kind of hunter characteristics. So 100 types it's gonna be type one type 2345345 characteristics. I'm gonna say fast, strong and smart TT. I'm saying that's the number. It's not a set, just a number of hunters of type T. So, for example, T one is equal 28 DC is my constraint is, uh how much How many hunters I need with characteristic C of this type for a successful hunt and a TC is one is a binary parameter. There is one, if a hunter of type T has characteristic C and zero. Otherwise, for example, a one fast is equal to one and a one strong is equal to zero. Why did I decided to use this notation? Because it's as good as any other as long as it's well round up. So what I want to do is, I want to you find my variables and I'm going to say that XT ease the number of hunters as you proposed the number of hunters of type T that I assign to the mission to the hunt. My objective is very clear In this case, I want to minimise XT. I want to If I If I look at all the types of hunters from type 12345 that I select I want to minimise the total No, what are my constraints? I have the demand constraints, right? So the number of F I, some over all the types the hunters that I selected for each characteristic I need to find that I have at least that amount of the needed amount of hunters. With that characteristic. This implies that I'm gonna have a constraint here for each characteristic C belonging to my set of characteristics. Every time that I write this, if you are not used to this notation every time that I write a constraint And in the end, I put comma C belongs to RC, for example, or I equal zone two or whatever. It means that this constraint is actually many constraints In this case, this constraint that I am writing is actually three constraints. One constraint for the characteristic of being strong, fast and smart. Now I need that for each characteristic. I need to be greater than I equal to BC. There is a needed number of hunters with that characteristic. And of course not all types have the characteristic. So I'm only gonna be counting over the XTS for a given characteristic. I'm only gonna be adding the number of hunters of the types that have those characteristics. Therefore, if a TC is zero for a given characteristic, it doesn't matter. If I put many hunters of that type for that constraint, it is gonna be zero. Makes sense, OK? Is that all? What else do I need? Right, I? I have a limited number of, uh, hunters of each type. Right. So now I have one constraint for each type of hunter. And I know that XT must be smaller than the number of hunters that I have available for that type. Sounds good. And, uh, I know that my XT is a positive integer and no negative integer right. Sometimes I'm gonna represent this. I think the material sometimes I use Z. Plus, there is a bit of ambiguity of notation in the literature. Some people say Z plus includes the zero. Some people say that it does not in this course it does. Right. Uh, everything here is greater than equal to zero. Is that all? I guess so. Right. How do we implement these things? So here in putting that kind of, uh, data. So I have my the amount of, uh uh the amount of, uh, type of hunters of each type that I have the number needed for my strong, fast and smart. Or here it is my A TC hunter of type one has the characteristic of type one of the first characteristic. Here I am just creating a branch in Python, saying, OK, I'm gonna be able to loop through these types and loop through these characteristics, but this is what's important. First of all, I'm importing this package called Gurobi pi, which is, uh, which is an API. A set of comments in order that we will use in order to be able to communicate with the server that implements the techniques that we are going to see later in this course. For now, we don't know what it is doing. We are just learning how to talk to it. So by implementing these, I can actually say create a model M is a model. I'm gonna give it a name. I don't need to, but I'm gonna give it a name for GP is a gurobi pi model. Now, in this model, I'm gonna add variables called X, and I'm gonna add one variable for each element of this range RT that was the number, the range of types of hunters. And the reason I say that the more the coding, unless you are very afraid from coding. Then again, this is not This is not a subject for you, but even if you have intermediate coding skills should be very, uh, trivial. Because the way we write these constraints in grey look very. It's very straightforward from when we write the constraints that we just wrote. So, for example, here look Before I wrote that for each C in our C I had one constraint And that's why I use this for here in the end and then I do a quick quick is a is a you can use just some. It's a python function that sums over a TC times XT for OT. That's basically the sum that we wrote before sum for T in RT of AC, C, AC times XT and these must be greater than equal to BC. Why did I have quick sum before? Sometimes in the sum function in python is not very efficient. Uh, computationally they They are not very implemented Very well. So, people, because we do these sums many, many times in the model that we have people in gurobi have a more efficient, uh, quick sum, a more efficient something that, uh, does implement this sum more efficiently. You don't need to worry if you just want to use some. Maybe in your project, when you have a large model, you can make a difference for the models that we have does not make any difference. And here now, XT must be smaller than the number of, uh hunters of that type that I have again for each type of hunter. And I set my objective again linking to this structure model where I saw the XT and I want to minimise. After I do that, I just call and optimise my model and here I'm printing the solution to get the solution. You just get the variable dot X and this X here is always X does not need to be, does not is not associated. It's not because I call the variable X. If I call the variable anything to get. The answer is you use dot X. So if I run this you see that, uh, it will call these guru optimizer in here. We don't know what it's doing here, right? Very in very high level terms. So just that you know something that's happening there, what it's doing, it's calling the simplex algorithm, solving the problem as if we could use continuous variables and not necessarily integer as if I could say, Oh, you need 1.5 hunters. And then if it does not get an integer solution, what it does is that it branches into different problems. Let's say that I say that I, I need 1.500 of type one. What it will do is that it will solve the linear programming. It will break the problem into problems and says, Oh, you need 1.5. I know that you cannot have 1.5 solve these two problems either, imposing that you must have at most one of the type, or you must have at most at least two of that type. So you are eliminating that fractional solution and you do this for all? Well, you choose one. That's fractional. But it might be that you have all one that's fractional. And you do that again and you do that again and you do that again, you create a tree. Basically, this method is called branch and bound, and it was invented by one of our people here. Uh, have you heard of Alison Hau? She was one tutor here, and we will talk a lot about her later on. But, uh, in the sixties, she and her colleague AUSA from from the London School of Economics proposed this method, uh, which is basically used in all servers of this kind. Right? So it's, uh, sometimes if you are walking down the corridor, sometimes she still comes here. She is an old lady. She walks very curved, uh, very white hair. So if you see some of that description walking down the corridors, you you can say Oh, Alison says hi. And I know that you invented the famous branch and bond method. I'll talk more about her later. OK, so I need six hunters. Two of type 01 of type one, one of type two and one of type four. And that's the minimal solution that I, uh, that I can obtain. What would happen if I put maximise here? What solution I'm gonna get mm, our hunters. Right. So I have one constraint that says that I'm limited by the number of hunters that I have, So if I put maximise, I'm going to select all of them. But of course, that's not what I want. Cool. Any questions?

SPEAKER 1
OK, I have phone numbers as results like No. Like you said one for five Y.

SPEAKER 2
Yes. Uh, yes and no. Uh, you what? What we do in mixture programming is we allow for models to use variables that can only be integer, but we can also have variables that can be continuous. So you you That's why we call mixed, mixed integer. Uh, that's where the mix it comes from. Yeah, yes.

SPEAKER 3
So the so is all the same for all the

SPEAKER 1
problems in the sense, Yes.

SPEAKER 2
Uh uh, Yeah. You just get this, uh, pretty much Pretty much, Actually. Every time I'm making these, when I'm changing something, I'm always copying paste, right? I'm always, uh the structure is. That's why I say that the code is not so again. Unless you are very scared of coding. The coding is not very scary because it's all it all follows the same structure. There is going to be a little bit of something more advanced by the end when you're dealing with the composition method. But it's usually because the that's a beauty because the constraints are all linear. They are a linear constraints always have the same structure, right? It's always a sum of something of a parameter. Multiply the variable and you can have another sum of parameters multiplied variables and so on. But it's always this You don't escape from this anymore. Any more comments And this a T I always assume

SPEAKER 4
the probability is, uh, in, uh, integer optimisation.

SPEAKER 2
No, Uh, no. I. I didn't tell anything here. Right. So, uh uh you are so right. You are so right. Uh, actually here. I didn't impose it to be integer. So what? He did Very good question, actually, what he did what di did was to solve the linear programming model here. And it happened to be integer the solution in order to impose that these variables need to be integer. For example, let's change this. And let's say that, uh, I need to have 3.5 hunters of this type. So it found a solution with this. So how to impose integer variable gurobi? I should have gone there. So the variable type you can assume if you don't say anything, it's gonna assume it is continuous. But, uh, you can impose that It's, uh, binary integer, and even if you have the same continuous or whatever, Uh, that's why I'm saying I'm always copying paste. I've done this 1 million times, but I still forget the precise comment. So let's try, uh, you type because let's see if that's the syntax. No, Um, no. Here you go. So now if I impose now, I'm telling you now I'm telling them that the variable must be integer. So what's happened? What's gonna happen now? Even if I have the requirement, that's 3.5. He is going to force the requirement to be four. He is going to say, OK, I need at least 3.5 but I need to use integer variables Then you will get the workers in order to make that requirement. At least four thanks. Makes sense, right? Uh, there is never Yeah, I forgot to put it here too. There are many ways to model the same problem. For example, I could look at the same problem and now say OK, I'm gonna model is different. I'm gonna define my data differently. I'm gonna say S fast is a set of hunters who are fast S strong is the set of hunters who are strong S smart is the set of hunters who are smart. Now if I look at my model, if I look at my model so let's see what this means here the range remains the same. The types remain the same. But now the S fast is equal to hundreds of type one. Always be careful. Uh, I usually start my counting at one here, but you know that python starts at zero. Right? So when we analyse the results, remember that python is starting at zero. So who is fast? How to type 14 and five. So how can I remodel my problem using this new notation? Well, same thing I want to minimise this sum of hunters that I select. But now I know that I can make a sum over T belongs two as fast, and I'm gonna sum I'm gonna sum only the XTS Only the the hunters from the types that I know there are fast because I did find a new set greater than I go to, uh, be fast and same thing for all the other, uh, hunter types. This is a kind of a structurally it's a different model. I don't have this parameter anymore. And now I have these sets here. But of course the model is gonna be the same. The the solution is gonna be the same thing. I call this version the set covering version. Let me just force the solution to be integer again. I should have put that now I'm saying from the set of smart hunters, I sum only on those set must be greater than the number that I need fast and so on. And I still have the constraints that say that I have a maximum of each type and if I run, I should get the same six solution. One important thing is that, uh if you have two models or even the same model if you run different configurations or whatever these metals are exact in the sense that when you get uh, when you convert it not only gave you a solution, but it's telling you that I proved that this solution is optimal, OK, different from what I said in the course that we have in the in the second semester. In that case, we find a solution. But we cannot guarantee its optimality in this course. We guarantee I guarantee you or gurobi guarantee us that these six here is the best solution that you can find. It is the solution that has a minimum number of hunters possible. However, not necessarily. What you get here will always be the same. You can have multiple solutions, multiple optimal solutions. I don't even remember if this was this is the same one as before 321. Uh, this is with the the new requirement. Right? So let me revert to the requirements for yeah, In this case, it was the same solution. What if I wanted to see if there is a different solution? That's an interesting question.

SPEAKER 1
If some of the answer cannot be that. Say it again.

SPEAKER 2
Exactly. I can say, OK, let me see if I have a solution. Where? Um where? I don't have three hundreds of type zero. I have some other things. So I'm gonna add a constraint if I adjust one. I don't need the S. I'm gonna say X zero. Uh, I need at least at most to Yeah, I can still find a solution of sex, but then I have all the configuration right. Finding alternative solutions can be a very important Let me just undo this. Otherwise, finding alternative solutions can be a very, very desirable thing in practise. Remember your modelling stuff? Uh, I'll probably end this with, uh, with a little bit of noting because next week and the week following, we will be dealing a lot with modelling. Modelling and modelling is a beautiful thing. Uh, do you know this? Oh, I do this sometimes. If I start talking about something and something is not there, please let me know. So, for next week one, we'll be talking a lot about, uh, modelling. Uh, do you guys know this painter? You probably have seen this painting before. No, It's from a French painter called he Magritte. Does anyone speak French here? This is not a pipe, right? What is this? This is the painting of a fight. This is not a fight, right? Uh, I love this painting. For what we when we talk about modelling because you always have to remember, the model is not reality. It's a representation of reality. Right? So, uh, when you go to a company, when you go somewhere in your job or whatever and, uh, you have a problem and you make a model, it's a representation of that thing. It's not necessarily that thing. So sometimes when you not, sometimes it's usually very important to have multiple different solutions for a problem, and then you can provide the actual decision maker with look, these are the different solutions that I found. They have this course, the costs are very similar. But can you identify something that is better in this solution or this solution? Sometimes it's just a feeling. Sometimes in this process, you learn about something that you should incorporate in your mother, right? So alternative solutions are are very important, and it is very important to keep in mind that we are dealing with representations of reality with drawings of pipes. Models are drawings of pipes. They are not pipes. They are not. They are not the reality themselves. There is another story that I love. Does anyone speak Spanish now? No. OK, I'll send you to the bio building. On the other side of the campus there is this Spanish writer called, uh, Jorge Luis Borges that I like. And you can read the short story. This is the whole story. But the story is the following. I'm gonna tell my version of it. Uh, a king loved maps and and he wanted to find the perfect map of his kingdom. So he sent out in search for the cartographers all over this kingdom and the the cartographers came and, uh, gave them a map. Very elaborate map. And the king looked at it and said, Oh, I don't like it. Cue him. Another cartographer came be a map. He looked at it. I don't like it. And so on and so on up to the day that there came a cartographer which came with a map in scale 1 to 1, and the king loved it and the king is dumb, right? Because there's no such thing as a map scale. 101 like again, The same idea. Reality is one thing. A model is another thing. So a map is not the kingdom. So you have always to remember that when you will be, uh, modelling, especially when you go in most of the subject. When I am presenting the problems to you or in the assignment or in class, the problems are very well defined already, they are already defined in the structure of the of the map. But when you go for the group project, you gotta remember that what you're dealing with is with reality. And reality is one thing. What you need to do is a map. And if you make a map in a scale of 1 to 1, that map is useless, right? The map only has a use because it's something that you can visualise. So that's the the idea. So we will be dealing from next week on, we will be dealing with making maps. I could start with very generic maps, what we call nonlinear programming, where I am saying that I want to minimise effects subject to a bunch of constraints of inequality, constraints, a bunch of equality, constraints and X can belong to anything that's probably the most generic, uh, mathematical programming model. Is this good? Well, very generic. Can I limited? Yes, I can. Maybe a limitation of that model is now something that I have been talking about, which is linear programming. Now, in this model here, I want to I have my variables X, which are continuous. I want to minimise a linear expression on X. Not that I'm representing the Matrix format, so it's a vector of parameters. Multiply the vector of variables. It's a linear, linear expression in the constraints, a matrix of parameters multiplied by a range, a vector of variables greater than a vector of right hand side. Also linear. So it's a much more constrained set of rules for my Mac, for my model. As I said, what we're going to be doing is this. Now I will eventually have two sets of of variables, not necessarily just integer, but I can have continuous variables X and integer variables. Y Uh, but still everything is linear. A and B are matrices of parameters with the appropriate dimensions. X and Y are my vector of variables. C and D are my are my vectors. C transpose is a row vector of parameters multiplying my verb. So everything here is linear. The question that I ask you is what is the right model? Or maybe why I'm placing so much emphasis on mix programming on linearity on on what I've been talking the whole morning here and the answer I like to see in this picture here I I sometimes tell jokes, but I have an agreement that I need to make with you. My jokes are very bad, so I usually only tell jokes if you promise to laugh. Mhm, I It's easy because I tell you went to the office and I raise my hand. OK, Can I tell a joke? OK, so when you need to laugh or raise my hand. So there's this guy who was drunk and he was looking for something below a lamp post, right? And five minutes ago, 10 minutes ago, and he's there looking for something. And some guy is passing by and said, Oh, my friend, you were What are you doing? Uh oh, I'm looking for my keys. I lost my keys. And the guy is very kind Guy says, Oh, I will help you look And then he starts looking below the lamp posts. So but after a couple of minutes, But did you lose your keys here? And the drunk guy says, No, no, no, I lose it over there and I, I didn't raise my hand yet. And, uh, and the guy gets mad and say, Why? Why are you looking here? If you lost your keys over there and then the drug guy says, Well, because there is too dark, you have some light. I It's a joke that I like to illustrate. Reality is nonlinear, right? Uh, things are non linear, like linear linearity is an approximation. Why don't we use the nonlinear models that are much more generic and much more flexible because it's too dark over there. You can try to make a nonlinear model, but as soon as this model gets a little bit bigger, you won't be able to find any solutions. So what we do is that we try to bring reality below the lamppost and the lamppost is the algorithm that we are gonna be learning here. These algorithms give you a space where if you make a model within that framework within the range of this light within the range of linear programming or mixed programming, if you make a model within this range, you will be able to solve it, right? Of course there is a balance, right? We don't want to be like the drunk guy looking for something that is not here. What we want to do is to be, at least in a region where the key

# Auto Notes
